Hacking keywords: discovering, manipulating, double-edged sword, swapping, solving a problem, poking around 

Lesson : For the personal aim to develop observational tool skill was for to use in marketing research as it is essential
to observe how consumers behave and interact in the market under natural circumstances. In this lesson, I was able to 
understand the comprehensive system and behavior of people and object by directly experience it. 

Reflection for observation tool: When we go deeper of observation the object, it was hard than I thought as 
I was investigating in the bathroom, looking into water system diagram the whole water system linked with kitchen 
and every place where they also need to use water. This experience gave me how small object is linked to our more
complicated network system. Next time, when I need to research for the needs, the first step will be looking into 
one specific object and try to understand the broader system with the object.

About hacking: Most of the people think of 'computer' hacking when we talk about the terms of hacking 
(I also did) but based on the lesson, hacking could be implemented in a more broader perspective.
The most interesting part of the hacking in my perspective is using as the tool for finding a new solution 
for the problem in the complex system which Microsoft did with the Xbox.  Microsoft hacked the Xbox game controller 
into more comfortable for disabled people could use.  

Two sessions with Shailoh and Joana :The first lesson was more of understanding the brief concept of hacking 
by reading through the manifestos.  It was interesting to see people having a different opinion about 
what is the line we can define as a hacking.  It was an interesting debate about impractical hacking, 
and practical hacking is, I also agree the hacking gets their value only if it has the purpose of uses. 
The second lesson was more going into hacking with experiment. By using actual observation skills, 
we need to analyze the system and think about what other function we can use for it. 

Hacking lecture by Florian Cramer: The lecture with Florian Cramer helps in different level of understanding
the Hacking and how it could be used in reality. By Introducing MIT - 1946, john draper the telephone hacker,
YIPL the blue box and Abbie Hoffman's book called steal this book. It was easy for me to understand how 
the original concept of hacking comes and how it has developed.  Personally, Cornelia sollfrank, invention
at a chaos computer club, which criticized for the overpopulation of man in computer club was an inspiring example 
to show how hacking could be used in an impactful way of showing it's an opinion. In this lecture, 
I was able to widen the perspective of the usage of hacking. 

Hacking lecture by Varia: The lecture with Varia was the closest lesson for what I intend to learn in the hacking practice.
By analyzing the behavior of opening the doors, and experiment by teams it gave me the idea of how we can apply 
the concept of hacking into reality. 

The project and overall summary: We wanted to intervene in the environment to give awareness about the lack of interest 
in surveillance in night time in Rotterdam. Based on the broken glass theory,  we tried to change the environment 
more into a safer place. For the method of hacking inspired by the observation tool we used in class, 
we tried to use as much as possible, leading to getting information not only online but also offline. 
When we were finding for the dangerous place, we need our whole sense to feel what makes that place dangerous.
During researching, we had a more in-depth understanding of how the environment could affect people psychologically
and collecting the data of areas that people likely to avoid. We created the map and redesigned the specific place.  
A lot of time during research for me I always neglected the part of experiencing due to thinking that it won't
gain much of the insights, but during the hacking class I realized it is an efficient tool to use in emphasizing 
with the audience, but as it is based on the sense it could be very subjective. 

